>> Good afternoon, Ladies and Gentlemen.
Welcome to Session 602 about configuration
profiles, creation, and deployment.
My name is Stan, and my question
is are you in the right room.
We were talking about it -- there's going to
be two kinds of people coming to this session.
Those are who are IT professionals and those who are lost.
So if you're an IT professional, this is the place to be.
Otherwise, I guess you can wait for the beer bash here.
It's nice and cozy.
I have one question before I start.
Who has been to the same session a year ago, because we have
some things that are the same, some things that are new.
Okay, so about half.
Half is new.
So what are you going to learn.
We'll be talking about what we call managed
configuration, configuration profiles on the phone.
What are configuration profiles, what can you use them for.
We'll be talking a little bit about a profile format,
how to create a profile, and how to deploy them.
So what are configuration profiles.
They are small XML files that host a lot
of settings that can configure the phone.
They are typically used for things that would
be considered cumbersome to set up on the phone,
where you don't want your average user in
the company configuring the VPN and what not.
They can also enforce a specific
set of policies on the phone,
the type and length of the PNG
code, auto lock time, et cetera.
They can do all of this securely,
especially now in iPhone 3.0.
We'll be talking about that more.
This is not to be confused with provisioning profiles.
There is nothing in common with provisioning profiles.
There was a session about that earlier, so if you're
looking for provisioning profiles you're at the wrong place.
So in version 3.0 of iPhone configuration
profiles configure many things, more things.
There's some things that we have
improved and some things that are new.
I'll go over this quickly, because a
lot of it is the same as last year.
First of all, Microsoft Exchange.
You all know what Microsoft Exchange is good for.
E-mail, calendaring, address book,
and also security enforcement.
Lots of policies get pushed down from Exchange.
Now in 3.0, also the camera off, more policies
that I'm not going to talk about in great detail.
And we also have cert-based authentication
so that you can send the whole profile
with everything ready to go to the user.
We have passcode policies and restrictions, you define a
set of passcode policies, they're applied in conjunction
with the EAS policies, they're merged together so
that multiple profiles each can specify a policy,
and then the most strict will be applied.
And the merging goes as follows -- imagine
you have one profile or one EAS account
that specifies I want six characters passcode.
I want the passcode to expire in 60 days or 30 days.
The other one says, you know, just four characters
is fine, but you have to have two special characters.
The merge profile -- the merge policy
is going to be as listed below.
Credentials.
You can install profiles -- you can
use profiles to install certificates
or you can install raw PKCS#1 and
#12 certificates on the phone.
That way your organization can install
signing certificates on the phone
to be used for your own profiles and what not else.
Also for authentication identity, such as for EAS.
We'll be talking about that more in great detail.
VPN configuration.
You know what VPN is, various protocols,
and now in 3.0 we support also proxies.
We have Wi-Fi settings.
All the leaps, peeps, beeps, and what else, eeps --
and basically anything that you can think of, 802.1x.
Application access restrictions.
We have added some new policies,
most specifically Camera Off.
That has been requested by many companies
to be able to turn off the camera.
That can be specified both by in a profile and by Exchange.
Mail settings.
Host, protocol, all that good stuff.
And now you can embed the account password as well.
Not just in the e-mail accounts, also in any --
well, many other payloads would
logically allow you to specify a password.
We can do that now because they're encrypted.
So you're not actually transferring the passcode
in the clear, we'll talk more about that later.
And APN settings.
My favorite, you either know what
it is, or you don't want to know.
You also don't want to play with it if you don't
know, because it will turn off your data access
on the phone, which is typically considered bad.
Now in 3.0, you can allow -- specify an HDV proxy.
Web clips.
One of those things that came actually as a
suggestion from our customers here at last year's WWDC.
Web clip, you know, is in Safari.
You press a plus button and you create a shortcut on your
Springboard desktop for the page your currently have open.
So now you can push that as part of a profile.
You can make them optionally nonremovable,
and it's useful, for instance,
to go to your company's IT web site and what not.
SCEP settings.
Now we're going to go talk more about that later, but
in SCEP service, you specify basically two things.
The URL of the service, name, and then also
the input to the certificate signing request.
We'll be talking about that more, where that's being used.
And then your good old friends, LDAP, CalDav, and CalSub.
So LDAP, you know what it is.
It's a DirectoryService that's being used for
completion in your mail, Address book, and what not.
CalDav, it's the OS X Server's Calendaring solution,
it's for wireless synchronization, an SD engineer who works
on that particular feature, says it is a lot of fun.
And finally we have CalSub.
Calendar subscription, that's -- you can
download those calendars from Apple or Google,
you can optionally authenticate with user name and password.
So those are the combined features in 3.0.
Now we're going to be talking to great length about details.
So the profile contents are flexible.
Profile can configure any single
component, what we talked before,
or basically virtually any combination of,
you know, APN and VPN at the same time.
That's for convenience and also for a carrot and stick
approach, so I give you access to the cert-based VPN.
But at the same time you also have
to comply to my password rules.
Now as an improvement to last year's
slide show, we now have a donkey.
Carrot and stick.
So you give the user something he or she
wants, and you made him obey by your rules,
like for a travelling salesman,
no explicit music and what not.
Content restrictions.
So there are some restrictions.
You can't really combine everything
you want, there are some rules on that.
So you can have only one passcode policy per profile,
you can have only one application access per profile.
Only one removal password per profile.
We'll talk more about that later.
And you can only have one EAS account globally on the
phone, whether you enter it manually or in a profile.
It's also all or nothing.
So you can install a profile as a whole, and
you can remove a profile only as a whole.
So if for some reason a profile can't
install, because there's some errors,
nothing of the profile will get installed.
So again, you're dealing with the
complete package of the carrot and stick.
The password -- the profile removal is also regulated
so you can optionally make it password
protected, or just flat-out make it impossible.
Be advised that's typically rude, and it might be
flat-out illegal if the user actually owns the phone.
If your corporation owns the phone,
you know, it's your phone.
But the user owns the phone, it might not be really legal.
So now going to security and authentication,
authenticity, you can sign a profile so that it --
the user can see whether it comes from somebody
they could trust or just any XML editor.
So we have three types of profiles.
There's signed and verified, so they can
be traced through a well-known route.
You have they are signed, but you
know, I just make up the certificate.
Or they are unsigned.
So the user sees right away based
on the badge how trustworthy it is.
Basically, it's the same signing as we use in OS X,
and we have about 600 root certs that can be traced to.
So now new in 3.0, profiles can be encrypted,
obviously one of the most requested features
that if somebody intercepts a profile it's like gibberish.
They can be and they should be always
signed, even if they are not encrypted.
All encrypted profiles are also signed.
And that means that you can insert
sensitive information in your profiles.
You can put e-mail passwords in there, you can
put EAS certificates, authentication certificates,
VPN and authentication certificates into
the profile, because they're encrypted.
So -- and if you omit some information
iPhone is still going to ask you for that.
So there's some caveats.
There's still no dependency analysis
when removing a profile.
So if you remove a piece of information
such as a certificate in one profile,
it might render a different profile unusable.
There is still no conflict resolution installing a
profile that overlaps with a previously installed profile,
will typically lead to an installation
error, and the profile cannot be installed.
And there's no expiration date for profiles, per se.
Certificates still have expiration dates.
So it's possible that, like, a piece of
the profile, the certificate will expire.
But the profile in itself will not.
So the profile format is the same
as last year, except we enriched it.
It's standard XML.
It's the same DTD as in OS X platforms.
And the format is really, really simple.
We use the same keywords all over the
place, and the specification is published.
Now how do you create the profile.
Well, you can do it by hand or you
can use iPhone Configuration Utility.
Which now new is for OS X and native for Windows.
We no longer have the web iPCU, we
now have a native one for Windows.
The iPhone Configuration Utility serves as a curator
for all of your configuration and provisioning profiles
and applications and many other things,
creates configuration profiles very easily.
It encrypts and signs them.
And interesting for IT people, it also allows
you to download the console for debugging.
For instance, when a program doesn't install, it can attach
it to iPCU, and the console is going to tell you why.
It does many other things, but we're
not going to go into those here.
So on that note, I would like to invite Chris Skogen
who will show you -- will give you a demo of iPCU.
Okay, so you need --
[ Applause ]
>> Thanks Stan.
I'm going to give you a really quick demo, tour, of iPCU,
or iPhone Configuration Utility as it's formally known.
Before I get started, since we are all IT
professionals, I'd like to see a show of hands
for how many people use Windows on their desktop every day.
It's okay, you're amongst friend, you know, nobody's
going to -- so this will be kind of a first for this demo.
We are actually going to do the demo on Windows.
So as we're looking at iPCU, it
has a pretty typical Mac interface.
On the left side, over here, we have a source list and it
contains the different types of sources for our library.
Over here on the right is then the Detail
View for the sources that are in that library.
And then the bottom pane is our detail or editor
pane for each of the things we are looking at.
Starting at the top of the library
if I click on the devices source,
you will see a list of devices that
this iPCU has seen connected to it.
It can show you the name of the device,
serial number, identifiers, owner's name,
and in the bottom detail you get a summary of
the device with identifier software version.
And it will also show you configuration profiles
that are known to be installed on that device,
it will show you provisioning profiles that
are known to be installed on that device,
and it will also show you applications that
are known to be installed on that device.
You may wonder how we get a device in there.
It's as simple as connecting it
to the computer, just like iTunes.
And you'll notice in the left-hand source list in a second,
you'll see the device pop up, just like iTunes or Xcode.
And in the device record list up here
we now have a green light on that record
to tell us that that device is currently connected.
If I click on the device itself I get a
slightly different look to the editor.
I also get configuration profiles, summary
information, provisioning profiles, applications.
But then there's the console log that Stan was mentioning.
And I can see everything that happened on that device's
console, and I can select them and save them off.
After the device list we'll take a
look at the provisioning profiles.
Now provisioning profiles are the files that are used
to make your device able to run a given application.
And I have a couple of demo files here.
All I do is drag them.
Now the provisioning profile editor will show me
the expiration date, the application identifier
that the profile is for, and then in the bottom, it
will show me any phones that I have in my library,
and it will show me whether or not I
have installed that profile on the phone.
In this case, Lucy's phone does not have this profile.
Now if it was a matter of wanting to install that
profile I would go back to the connected device,
go to provisioning profiles on this
tab, and there's my Install button.
So that's how I go ahead and install
a provisioning profile on a device.
And of course with provisioning profiles are applications.
And I can add a few applications to this library.
Just by dragging and dropping.
And again, this editor will show me devices
that I know of and then it will show me whether
or not this application is on that device.
And it's similar to provisioning profiles again.
I can click on the connected device.
Go to Applications, and go ahead
and install that application.
In a demo in a little bit we're going to show you
installing configuration profiles on the device,
but for now I'm going to focus on how to actually
use iPCU to create a configuration profile.
So what I do to get started is I select
the source list for configuration profiles.
I go up to the toolbar, and I press the New button.
Now I get my new profile here with a default name,
and the bottom editor is our new
configuration profile editor for 2.0.
On the left side in this list you will see the
different payloads that Stan was going through.
And on the right side when I select a payload, I will
see the state of that payload and all the data for it.
So I'm going to run down some of these payloads quick,
and while I'm doing it, I'm going to be showing you how
to create a configuration profile
for kind of real world usage.
So let's assume my company's name is Acme Inc., and I'm
going to create a profile that has VPN access to my company,
and in addition to that, I'm going to enforce a passcode.
I'm going give the user a web clip on their Springboard,
and I'm also going to take away
some capabilities from the device.
So let's get started.
I have my new profile here, and in the general payload which
is always there, I get to specify the name of the profile.
So I just click, give it a name.
I'm going call it Acme VPN profile.
Now I have to give it a unique identifier.
These identifiers are very important because
when you are updating configuration profiles
on a device they are uniquely identified by this identifier.
So in this case, I'm going call it com.acme.vpn.
In the future if I want to change that profile I have
to have that same identifier, and it will overwrite it.
The organization name is Acme Inc.
and the description, which will be
shown so the device when the user tries
to install the profile, Acme Inc., VPN configuration.
And I'm a bad typer.
There. Down here at the bottom of the general payload is
where you would enable or disable removal of the profile.
By clicking on this you could say allow it to be removed
with authentication, or never allow it to be removed.
For this, we're going to leave it as Always.
The user can remove it.
So for the next payload, which is a passcode payload, you
notice when I click on it, I get this little gray screen
that says this payload is not in the profile.
So in order to start, I actually have to hit
configure to add the payload to the profile.
Once I've done that I'm presented
all of the options in the payload.
And you'll notice in the right there's a little minus
button which is remove the passcode configuration.
So if I hit that it will go ahead
and remove that payload from here.
What we want is we want to require a passcode on the
device, and we do not want it to be a simple value.
So we don't want it to be 111, or AAA.
And that's really all we're going it
do for the users of this Acme VPN.
But you'll see there's many other options for minimum number
of complex characters, how long before we lock the device,
how many failed attempts they can
have before we'll lock the device.
So that's it.
I leave that one , and that payload is part of my profile.
Now we'll take a look at restrictions.
Now I said I wanted to stop our users
from doing some things on the device,
and specifically, I don't want them using the camera.
So I'm going to uncheck these.
Now, I got that backwards.
I'm sorry.
I'm going to allow them all of these, and
I'm going to take away the use of the camera.
Again, there's nothing to do, just
move onto the next payload.
That one will be saved.
We're not going to be adding Wi-Fi to this
payload, but I'd like to show you the Wi-Fi editor.
I go ahead and add the payload by
pressing the Cconfigure button.
You'll notice on the Wi-Fi that
there's a plus and a minus button.
That's actually because I can add
more than one Wi-Fi payload.
So by clicking on plus, you'll see that it
added another configuration for a second Wi-Fi.
And in here you'll find all the different types of Wi-Fi
set ups that can be done, all the eeps , peeps, TLS,
authentication by certificate, things like that.
So I'm going to take this payload off because
we're not going to use it for Acme Inc..
The next one up is VPN.
This is one we are going to use for Acme Inc..
I can give it a connection name.
Acme VPN connection.
I can choose the type of connection.
We're going to keep it very simple.
We give it the server name, the little red arrow
goes away indicating that that was a required field.
I can give it a user account.
And since I'm going distribute this profile encrypted, I
can go ahead and put the shared secret for the VPN in there.
That's actually it for VPN.
You also notice I have the plus sign so
I can configure multiple VPN payloads.
Moving on to e-mail, we're not
going to use that, but very quickly.
Here's how you set up the e-mails, there's the incoming,
outgoing mail servers, all the different, you know,
server name, server address, you can
put in the user name and password.
So we'll take that one out.
Here's the Exchange Active Sync settings
that Stan was mentioning earlier.
The domain, the host for the Exchange Active Sync.
We're not going to use that, we'll take that out.
Some of the new settings.
LDAP. Similar to the Wi-Fi and VPN.
You can set up multiple LDAP servers, you can do your
search settings down here, and your host name and password
if you're going to be deploying encrypted profiles.
Another new payload for -- for 3.0 is CalDav.
Again, just like the other ones, add your
host name, ports, account, user name,
password, use SSL, and you can add multiples.
Subscribe calendars.
Similar. You're seeing the pattern by this point?
Here's the web clip that Stan was mentioning,
and we are going to put this one in our Acme.
So we're going to call this the Acme HR portal
So because they're going to take our VPN,
and this is our carrot and stick approach --
because they're going to get our VPN, there's the carrot,
stick is going to be they're going
to lose some functionality.
But we're also going to give them this quick web
clip to get to the HR portal inside of the company.
So we can say this is hr.acme.com.
Whether or not the user can remove it from
Springboard and whether or not you're going to --
you add an icon here for the Springboard by
either dragging and dropping or by hitting Choose.
And you can add multiple web clips.
Credentials is not new.
This is how you would actually put
certificates and identities on the device
for usage n Wi-Fi payloads or VPN
payloads, things like that.
SCEP is new.
This is how you can do an enrollment protocol for
getting certificates to the device over the air.
And there's going to be a demo of
that later on in this presentation.
And then here's the APN payload and advanced
settings for the new HTTP proxy and things
like that, that we're not going to be using that.
There, I've run through all of my payloads, and I have my
name, the description, the organization, my identifier,
I've enforced a passcode on the device, I've set up my VPN,
I've given them a web clip to an
internal portal, and I'm done.
So now the next step that I would want to do as an
administrator is start to deploy this to devices.
And at this point my demo is done,
but we'll turn it back to Stan
and let him start explaining how we
roll out these configuration profiles.
Thank you.
[ Applause ]
>> Thank you, Chris.
Okay, switch box.
Chris, [Inaudible] here we go.
Slides A.
We did not rehearse that part.
So that is Chris.
Okay, so now we created a profile.
Now we need to deploy to the people,
otherwise, it's kind of useless.
How can you do that?
The good old way, via e-mail, via the web, and
now new in 3.0, we have the USB tether from iPCU
and the really sexy way of doing it is the over the air,
just no strings attached, distributed to people remotely.
The USB and OTA approach are always encrypted.
You have no choice there.
The e-mail and web you do have a choice
if you do want to go encrypted or not.
Typically, we will say that in most
cases you do want to go encrypted,
but there are some reasons why you might not want to do.
For instance, the simplicity of it is one.
All encrypted profiles are device specific.
And so if you wanted to deploy a profile to
say, a whole university with 10,000 students,
you would have to have 10,000 very
unique profiles for each phone.
And that might be overkill for a profile
that just, you know, gives them a web clip.
That might not be suitable.
So it's all about how much effort you want to put into it.
So the old way.
Click on the web.
The profile gets installed in preferences.
May or may not be encrypted.
It's very easy to deploy, just put it on the server.
You can distribute a URL via e-mail or via SMS.
You can password protect the web
site itself, but not the profile.
If you want, for some medium security.
You should set up this MIME type if
you're planning to deploy to 2.X devices.
In 3.0, if you're deploying only to 3.0
devices, you don't need the MIME time.
The phone, when it sees .mobileconfig
will do the right thing.
Extra credit if you know what aspen stands for.
The other old way of doing it is e-mail.
You can push it to a user's e-mail account.
It requires that a user already has an e-mail account.
So it can be quite out of the box.
The profile can be encrypted, but doesn't have to be.
Note that neither of those devices,
approaches, rather, are a true push.
The user still needs to press the Install
button and go ahead and install the profile.
New way. Distribution via iPCU USB push.
So as we -- Chris already showed and we'll see more
demos of that later, you connect a phone to a computer
and you just press the Install button as you can see in
the screen shot above, and the profile will get installed.
But still, somebody has to confirm
and press the Install button.
Or, the new sexy way, profile deployment via OTA.
Your iPhone just talks to a cloud in the sky, and it's fully
encrypted, it will require some sort of auto authentication,
like some sort of password that you already have set up with
the company so the device can do a handshake with the server
with your OTS server, to agree that yes, okay,
I trust you, you're one of our friendly phones.
And you still have to tap to install it.
Don't file requests that you would like a totally
automatic push this profile and it has to be installed.
We know about that.
And if you actually think about the
problem, it's harder than it seems
because the generic general case cannot
be solved without user interaction.
So if you really want to know what's going on behind the
scenes I would like to invite Conrad and, yeah, go ahead.
[ Inaudible comments ]
>> -- the encrypted profiles, and
also the profile distribution service.
So that you can actually get them to there.
Because obviously setting up an
encrypted channel with the phone is going
to require a little bit more than
just -- I don't know, guessing.
So I'm going to basically talk
about encrypted profiles, you know,
how did we get there, what -- how
do we actually encrypt them.
Then I'm going to go over the high level steps
that we go through to have them distributed
from a profile distribution service, and how
we get the phones set up with that service.
And then at the tail end of it I will actually show
you a demo with like a little Ruby server and Raccoon,
and just show you basically, you take a couple
of pieces of software, you put that together,
you can actually get your own solution going.
So encrypted profiles.
First of all, as Stan has already pointed out, these things
should be signed so that your users can see, like, hey,
this profile is actually -- wasn't
tampered with when it was in transit to me.
And signing them is actually really simple.
It's just take a profile and turn it into a CMS signed data.
You know, there's nothing secret or special about it.
It's fairly simple.
It came to us that other people had thought that maybe
there was something special about it, but this is it.
Then of course why are we having these encrypted profiles.
Well, we want to install some policies
as well as some services,
and those services will then have some
keys to, you know, the magic parts.
You want them all installed together because basically if
you give people access to your local network you want them
to abide -- at least a passcode on their
device, just to make sure that, you know,
when they leave it in a restaurant, no eone will
be reading their e-mail like, within, 30 seconds.
So how do we increment them.
Well, sample answer there too, encrypted profile is just
really that array of payloads that you're going to install.
All stuffed into a CMS envelope data, and all of
that then goes higher up into an XML file and --
well, the server will basically give you a technical look
behind the scenes as to how that actually is put together,
and you should be able to just make it work from there.
One thing that's also mentioned, of course.
When you pick encryption, we are
encrypting toward a specific device.
So you do have to have, you know,
a specific profile for each device.
You cannot just share those between different devices.
And that brings me kind of to why we
needed that profile distribution service.
So let's talk about that for a bit.
Well, if you want to set up a profile distribution service,
obviously there's this enrollment part where, you know,
a user picks up their phone and wants to start using it.
So the first thing to do is figure
out, like, okay, who is this user.
If we're going to be specific, then you can
also install all the services and configure them
for this particular individual user
already so that the only thing they have
to do is install the profile and they're off.
Second of all, you probably also want
to figure out, hey, what is this device.
Is this actually an iPhone, what software is it running.
More about that later.
So then we need the profile service to get, you
know, the phone has to get enrolled so it can prove
to the profile service which phone it is.
And so that the profile service can actually provide
the encrypted profile for this particular phone.
And after the phone is set up that way and it
comes back and says, like, hey, give me my profile.
The profile service can now go ahead and figure
out this is the user, this is the device,
these are all the settings that should go together.
Let's put them all into a profile and send them off.
Of course if later on you find that, you know, some
settings are wrong or something needed to be fixed,
the same way the phone can now come back through that same
profile service and go ahead and pick up a new profile
that is going to just wholesale replace everything that was
there before, and the user can keep going at that point.
So I skipped quickly over this certificate enrollment.
This didn't exist on the phone before,
so with 3.0 we actually now have a form,
a way of doing certificate enrollment.
And for CMS we're going to need some X.509 identities.
So what we did here is basically add enrollment so that
we have a way of avoiding the key ever leaving the device.
With enrollment, what we do is we generate the key
on the device, we send the public key off to SEA,
and then basically they can give us back a certificate
with which the profile service can now identify us
and send us encrypted profiles
targeted specifically at that device.
For that we use SCEP.
The request will be pre-authenticated.
This is to make a seamless experience for the user
so that basically they go through this install step
and it just goes going, keeps motoring on.
That enrollment, then finishes for the profile service.
But you know, this feature enrollment, you could also
use if later on you decide to set up a VPN client base --
client certificate base VPN in the configuration.
So you can have it used for these additional
credentials, that on install it will go ahead
and enroll a couple more entities for the
various services that you want to provide.
So couple words about SCEP.
It was a practical choice for us because it
basically allowed to do that automatic enrollment.
And the profile service will use that in a way to prove
to the CA that, hey, this request that you're going
to get actually should be handled, and you
should basically give out a certificate.
It is limited to RSA, but so are we.
So this only goes for RSA key pairs and X.509 entities.
And then you have the choice of
picking 1024 or 2048-bit keys.
One thing to be said about 2048-bit
keys is, like, nice big secure.
But they take a while to generate
on a device, especially older ones.
So you may want to find -- strike the good balance
between picking maybe a smaller key size and you know,
having it valid for a shorter amount
of time, which also reduces your risk.
So the challenge for pre authentication
needs to go in there.
So you need to set up a way by which you can have the
profile service prove to the CA on the other side,
because the phone basically gets all these
details, turns around, talks to the CA,
and says, hey, enroll this public key for me.
So you have to have a way to have both
of them agree that this should be done.
And so the profile service has to provide
something that the CA can then validate to see
that it should issue this a certificate, yes or no.
Another thing to mention is as we were building the solution
at Apple we do use this to deploy
on demand VPN for ourselves.
But we implemented our own solution to basically mesh
better with the architecture of our IT organization.
So in that, we missed a couple of small interoperability
issues that we actually need to still fix.
So if you have an existing SCEP server, you
can actually go ahead and use that one instead,
you don't have to hack up something
because you already did the work.
So with that, let's -- I wanted to
also quickly touch on USB versus OTA.
It was already kind of mentioned that as soon as you
get more and more profiles that it can get out of hand.
But at a high level, both function the same way.
With USB tether you obviously have the trusted connection
already, so there's no need to set up, like, a web service
and make the phone actually talk
to it securely so much any more.
You can basically have them quickly negotiate
the secrets on the first tether connection,
and then later on you can actually
send encrypted profiles over e-mail,
or you can actually put them on a web server as well.
The updates do have to be pushed, and a profile
service, the phone can go ahead and it can just go back
to profile service, say hey, give me a new
one, and that will happen; in the iPCU case,
you will have to generate them, put them somewhere, and
then ask the user to go ahead and download the new one.
So as you can see, it's a little more involved up front
to set up OTA, but it will scale to more devices, which,
you know, eventually you have to make a decision there.
So the overview of how this is going to go.
I'm going to quickly touch on the various steps,
then we're going to go into a little bit more detail,
and then finally I will actually show you that
this works and what it looks like to the user.
I mentioned the profile service and I mentioned SCEP server.
I'm actually pulling them apart here just to make it
a little more clear that there is a profile service
that does all the handling of the profiles, and
then it can turn around and have the phone go ahead
and talk to certificate authority
to enroll that certificate.
So first of all, we need to get started here.
What can you do?
Well, let's make this simple.
A URL would be the easiest way.
You can use an SMS to send it out to
the phone, but this starts with a URL.
That should make it relatively easy.
Then the phone has to go ahead and authenticate.
Possibly the user, but the device as well to the profile
service, and see if it's willing to let it enroll.
If things go well, the profile service
will now give it enough information
that the phone can go ahead and
enroll in the profile service.
And get a profile service certificate, that is.
Then it can go back to the profile
service and say, well, I'm enrolled.
Here's my certificate.
Where's my profile.
Gets the encrypted profile, and as a final step,
the phone will go ahead and install that profile.
And may actually find additional
certificates it needs to go ahead and enroll.
And as such, it can go and complete those steps
with the certificate authority before
all the services get configured.
So first step.
The boot strap.
We have a URL.
We can go ahead and send out the
HTTPS request to the profile service.
At this point we have the option of authenticating the user,
making the user use whatever authentication Safari supports,
and have them put in user name and password.
The profile service can now, you
know, start keeping track of, like,
who this user is by adding an authorization
token to the payload it's going to send back.
It's going to send the device a payload saying
hey, the profile service is at this URL.
Here's the device attributes I'd like you to
tell me, so tell me what kind of device this is.
And it will also include that challenge to basically
point it to which user authenticated in this step,
so that in the next step we can basically put
all of that information together as we get ready
to enroll that profile service certificate.
So to authenticate the device, the device goes ahead and
picks up all these device attributes that are required.
It can tell you what build it's running, it can tell
you what device, it can give you the unique device ID.
It will sign all of that with the device certificate.
Again, this is a CMS signed data, trivial thing to check.
And this way you will know, because of
the device certificate, it's an iPhone,
and because of the contents, what
version it's currently running.
As a result, the profile service will
say, like, hey, that looks good to me.
Send the SCEP payload to the device for it to go
ahead and enroll a service certificate and off we go.
So what does that look like.
Well, that's the SCEP step.
You can read about that elsewhere more specifically.
But in short, the device generates the key pair.
The key pair goes into a CSR, [Inaudible] and all of that
gets sent in an SCEP request to the certificate authority.
The authority can then pull out that challenge,
can check, hey, is this little challenge here,
was that actually signed by the profile service?
Yep. It was, okay, good.
Go ahead, issue that certificate.
Send it back in an SCEP reply.
The phone will go ahead, verify that reply that they got it
back from the service that actually asked for a certificate.
And we're done.
So let's get an encrypted profile.
Well you see the same step again,
really, as the previous time.
The device is going to go ahead now and send the
device attributes, but this time it's actually going
to use the profile service identity that is now acquired.
It just got that profile service certificate, put
them together with the private key, there you go.
You've got a identity.
So we sign the device attributes with that identity.
Send it to the profile service.
The profile service can now look at that
certificate and identify the device.
And can go ahead and prep that specific configuration for
the device, encrypt it for the device, and send it back.
So one thing to mention about this step is this is not
only the step during which you get the first profile,
and this will also explain why we're sending
these device attributes again in this step.
When the phone comes back, say a month later or so, and one
of its identities has expired and it needs to get a new one,
it will send you the device attributes again.
So you can recheck what version of the software
are you running now, just to, you know,
figure out what services you should
have access to and which ones maybe not.
And then the final step.
We get this encrypted profile.
You can see the policies with the
services and the credentials.
They're all packed together there.
And they all install in one go.
And obviously, your keys to the
castle here are the credentials.
But the credentials don't necessarily
have to be included, as I said.
They can also be generated at this point, and then
the phone can go off during install and go ahead,
put together an SCEP request, go ahead get that
certificate enrolled, stick it into the configuration.
And move along.
And with that, I finally get to the cool part.
Now going to demonstrate how this works to you.
And the thing that I'm going to
demonstrate to you is -- we have a phone.
I'm going to demonstrate to you a service that was
basically put together with a simple Ruby service,
and -- I'm going to steal the sticky-tape here.
A simple Ruby service, and a Raccoon running on
my laptop, which is also the profile service.
So it's kind of an all in one service.
Just to show to you that basically you can --
I'm glad that they got less fingerprints on
the new models, because this one is horrible.
Yeah, you don't need those.
So as you can see, we can get to this profile service here.
This is the first time I'm actually connecting to it.
This profile service goes ahead and sets up its own
self signed certificate because it is going to have
to issue a whole bunch of certs to the -- nice -- okay.
There it is.
I don't know why I plugged that in.
That's only going to get iPCU involved in this as well.
So we don't want that.
One step I already did here and I'm
actually going to quickly show you this.
Since I have a self signed certificate here to start
out with, I needed to make the device trust it,
because this is basically going to be the root of all trust.
It's going to be the thing that issues the
VPN certificate is going to be the thing
that issues me the profiles and all of that.
So what I did was I went ahead and installed
the profile service root certificate here.
And with that, basically the phone will now trust
anything that was issued from that CA going back on down.
So going back to the profile service,
we have the root certificate on there.
You can basically boot strap your process by getting an
actual certificate from a CA and get started with that,
then go to an HTTPS web site and pick up the
organization's root certificate from there.
In my case, I have to kinda you know,
dance around and say it's all good.
Now let's go ahead and enroll.
So this is the first boot strap URL.
I'm not typing in the URL in this case, I'm basically
going ahead and just going into the profile service.
After all of this I have already done user
authentication which Safari helpfully remembered for me
from a previous time, so you haven't seen that either.
The service will of course, you know,
prove to you how you can make that work.
The profile service comes back and says hey, this is a
profile service, would you like to get enrolled in this one?
I say, like, sure, let's do that.
And now an awful lot of things are going to happen at once.
Because we're going to enroll in this profile service, which
is going to ask us to go ahead and generate a key pair.
Then go to the SCEP service in the background.
So get that certificate enrolled.
Go back to the profile service.
Say, like, hey, where's my encrypted profile.
And it's slower than normally so I've got a
little chance to tell you what's going to happen.
The profile service that you see now is going
to switch into the actual encrypted profile.
You see that the screen changed to secret layer.
So now I'm going to have a configuration
profile to access that.
In the top you can see that now we're actually
going to go ahead and generating more keys
and enrolling more certificates, because if you look
at the contained section you'll see that we're going
to install a web clip to point
us to where the secret layer is.
We're going to set up some VPN settings to do a
client-side certificate off to a VPN server on my machine.
And then there's an SCEP payload because we're not
including the client-side entity in the payload yet,
we're actually just telling it, hey,
go ahead and get that one enrolled.
Could have shown you that there's more here, and if
you can see the top -- this view is not that friendly.
But you can see that I basically got
a profile service issued certificate.
And that actually got used in my VPN crossing the moat.
Configuration.
So let's see what we have.
We can go back to Springboard and you'll see --
oop, there is the new web clip to the secret layer.
And that will basically be a URL that I set
up to have on demand VPN launch and use VPN
to go -- to get in there and then hit the URL.
Obviously I stopped the demo short a little bit here.
What's going to happen is it's going to bring up VPN.
It's actually going to ask me for
X off user name and password,
because I don't have enough Raccoon
food to turn that part off.
But at this point we will already have
negotiated with the client-side identification.
So what you will see will go to the URL, it
launches Safari, there's a URL that doesn't exist.
Then the VPN says hey, X off.
But we're not requiring that part.
And there we go.
There's the message of the day that
was installed on the Raccoon service.
This is the best I could do to prove to you that
I'm connecting to my VPN server there, and okay.
And as you can -- may have noticed in the
top there's the little VPN icon that came up.
So it's going, and if we go back to our configuration
now in general and in networking you can see
that we now have VPN set up, and there is our profile.
One thing to note about the VPN profile
is because everything was managed,
we're not actually going to let
you change anything about it.
You can turn off the on demand
switch, but that's all you can do.
And with that we can get out of there.
Now you can see, we've been connected for 45 seconds.
Wow. So going back into the profiles
I wanted to show you one more thing.
There's now two profiles.
One is the root certificate authority, and the
second one is the actual configuration profile
that you've already seen before.
I marked it as it's already expired so I can show you
what's going to happen when something goes wrong with one
of these identities, if VPN at some point kicks
you out and says, yep, that's no longer good.
You end up at this screen.
And there will be a button at the bottom where you
can say, hey, go ahead and update this profile.
And then it will tell you, like, hey, I -- you
know, existing profile could not be updated.
But I can get you a new one.
Would you like a new one.
I'll say, like, sure.
And it will go ahead.
And now we're going to get a new one.
And notice that VPN icon at the top,
what's going to happen is it's going
to uninstall the old configuration profile,
then install the new one on top of it.
Of course I should have told it to go install
and replace in the meanwhile, while I'm talking.
But basically what you're going to see
is the VPN icon is going to be pulled
down because I just removed the configuration.
And now we're going ahead and generating a new key just
for the VPN client off, and then we're going to go ahead
and enroll that certificate again, and then at the
end of it I should be at the same point as I was.
You get a good feel for what happens
when you demo to some stage.
If you generate a couple thousand 24 bit
keys, the first couple ones are really --
go really well because you have lots of
entropy, and then you slowly run out.
And there we go.
We finally generated the key.
We enroll it.
We're done.
Go back, there's no -- you see,
there's only one secret layer icon.
Yeah, yeah.
There we go.
And there's VPN again.
Go -- I'm so happy to be back.
All right, last step.
We're going to go ahead and remove this
just to show you that it cleans up nicely.
I didn't actually demo you, like, restrictions in here.
This could have basically asked me for a passcode, like,
right in the middle of doing this install to tell me like,
hey, you don't have a passcode
yet, I want you to install one.
I didn't include that here.
That would have probably been nice to show you.
But I'll leave that as an exercise for you.
The profile service we're going
to be at that lab afterwards.
You can get that Ruby file from me and you can
even peek at some of the Raccoon notes if you like.
But that Ruby file should basically be like your best
attempt as a technical piece of documentation for you
to figure out a service like this yourself.
Then if we go back here, let's quickly look for VPN,
because hey, it's no longer configured, all right.
And just to prove to you that this wasn't
all fake we can try to reload this URL again,
but you know, it's just not going to go anywhere.
Okay, we do that.
Anyway, with that I want to turn it over back to Stan.
[ Applause ]
>> Thank you, Conrad.
So this was one of the reasons why I was
asking initially were you in the right room.
This is the really new way to deploy profiles.
It really scales well.
The whole USB tether thing is great for small
shops, when you don't want to set up a server.
But this thing is really great if you have several
people, if you have, you know, 100 people it will be hard
to get them all to your IT person's
cubicle and connect and do things.
So now we have installed profiles.
Now what are we going to do with them.
Well, one of the things is they need to be backed up.
Just this last year if you back up a device and then you
restore it to the same device just because you erased it
or something like that, the profiles will be there.
If an encrypted profile has been installed on the
device via USB or e-mail or whatever, either way,
if it's encrypted it will require
an encrypted back up in iTunes.
There's a new feature to optionally
require encrypted back ups.
If you have an encrypted profile, you have to have encrypted
back ups, or it will not allow you to back up your phone.
There's no migration.
That's in a way a security feature
for open cubicle landscape.
Prairie dogging is good, stealing other
people's configurations and secrets is not.
So if you take a phone or you buy a new phone or you
go out and buy the 3GS and you have profiles installed
on your old phone, you back that up and you push it
to the new phone, the profiles will not come across,
the Keychain is not going to come across as well.
So you have to reinstall those by hand.
Updating profiles.
So Conrad was showing there, that, you
know, he pressed the Update button.
The Update button is available only
when you hit an OTA installed profile.
If for some reason your IT organization pushes out a
new profile, and again, there is no real push in 3.0,
but when they tell you hey, there's a new profile
available, the update works roughly as follows --
you navigate or you get an e-mail to the same profile again.
You press Install.
It so to speak deinstalls the old profile
and puts the new one in its place.
All of this is triggered by the profile identifier.
When you look at the XML documentation of
the profile or when you look at the iPCU,
there's that one identifier thing that's
the most important thing, has to be unique.
So you can have unique identifiers for your
Chicago, San Francisco, what not place.
And if a new profile that comes into the device has the
same identifier as something that's already on the phone,
that whole thing will get uninstalled,
the new thing will get replaced.
It will be placed in its place.
We were talking about security a lot.
And you know, that you can't -- one of the new things
is that you can't update a profile with another one
that does not come from the same signing authority.
Because for instance we were talking about
nonremovable profiles, we'll talk about that
and we'll show you more about that later.
You flag a profile as nonremovable.
Well, somebody could issue himself a profile with
iPCU that you can download off Apple's web site
that doesn't have the nonremovable flag
set, and it would just supercede it.
And then you could remove it.
So that would kind of be a joke.
So in order to install a new updated profile
it has to come from the same signing authority.
Removing profiles.
Again, normally unrestricted, but
then can be flagged as nonremovable.
My plea to all of you is be really careful with that.
At least provide a removal password.
We have encrypted the profile so there is a
place in iPCU where you can enter in a password.
It will be encrypted.
Nobody's ever going to see it.
And then the IT person can give to the
end user, hey, the password is fubar.
And it may be flat-out illegal.
So think about that.
So enough talk.
I would like to invite the other Chris who ironically
is other Chris's roommate, office mate, on stage,
who is going to show you the user experience.
[ Applause ]
>> Hi everyone, I'm Chris Pavicich,
I am along with Chris Skogen one
of the other iPhone Configuration Utility engineers.
And I'd like to talk to you today about the
on-device experience with configuration profiles.
So I'm going to go ahead and install
a couple of them from an e-mail.
And I'm also going to show you
doing a tethered install with iPCU.
So bear with me for a second while I get set up.
So here's my iPhone.
I'm a new employee at Acme Incorporated.
And my System Administrator e-mailed me
out a couple of configuration profiles.
So I'm going to go into Mobile Mail,
and I see that Chris sent me a couple
of configuration profiles to help me get started.
I'm going to go ahead and install this first one.
And you see that Mobile Mail actually when
you send mobile config files as attachments,
recognizes them, and it knows how to handle them.
So I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to
get started with installing this profile.
And I'm just going to tap on it.
Launches the Settings app.
And it brings me to the Install screen.
And we get a nice summary, the name of the profile.
This one hasn't been signed.
A description.
This one's got some web clips in it.
When I received, I got it today, and it has three web clips.
But I'm going to see more details about
the payloads in the individual profile.
I can tap More Details.
I see that I'm going to get three web clips.
I'm going to get access to our wiki,
our lunch menu, and our main web site.
So that looks pretty good to me.
I want to go ahead and install that.
So I'm going to tap Install.
So an alert pops up here letting me
know that this profile wasn't signed.
So the authenticity can't be verified.
And it's also letting me know that installing this
profile is going to change some settings on my device.
I'm good with that, I really -- I want these web
clips, so I'm going to go ahead and tap Install now.
It's going to do its magic.
Lets me know the profile is installed, and I'm done.
Takes me back out to Mobile Mail where I came from.
And let me show you actually that
it did install those web clips.
So I'm going to hop back out to Springboard, and you see
it added three new web clips to my Springboard desktop.
Chris also sent me another profile, I
think with some Wi-Fi settings in it
so that I could access the corporate wireless
network while I'm in the office using my phone.
I'm going to go ahead and install that too.
So yeah, there's my Wi-Fi profile.
I want to install that.
Go ahead and tap on it.
Again, it will launch settings automatically.
Bring me to the installer screen.
And you see that this profile summary screen
is slightly different from the last one
in that it shows me who signed this profile.
This one's been signed.
But it's not been verified.
So I don't -- the phone in this case doesn't
trust the CA that signed this profile.
But it has been signed.
And again, I can see what's -- payloads are in this
profile, there's a Wi-Fi network and a restriction.
Let me see what those are.
It looks like -- I'm not going to be able to use
YouTube if I want access to the Wi-Fi network.
And that goes back to the carrot and
stick approach Stan mentioned earlier.
You may need to give your users access to VPN, Wi-Fi
network, and there might be certain rules they have
to play by, whether it's passcode restriction,
they can't use explicit content, they
can't install apps on their phone.
So I'm pretty happy with this, I
want access to the Wi-Fi network.
And I'm willing to deal with losing YouTube.
So I'm going to go ahead and install that.
So again, I -- it tells me -- the authenticity
of this profile couldn't be verified.
Installing this profile is going to
change some settings on my phone.
And once this profile has been installed on the device
my System Administrator has locked this profile down
and said that the only way to remove
it is with an administrative password.
That was embedded in this profile.
I'm okay with that, I really want
access to the Wi-Fi network.
I'm going to hit Install now.
As Stan mentioned earlier, if you leave any
information out of a profile that's necessary for it
to work, the user will get prompted for it.
I already know my Wi-Fi password, so
I'm going to go ahead and enter it.
Tap Next. The profile installed.
And we're good to go.
So as I mentioned, this profile was locked down,
so you had to have a password to remove it.
And I want to show you what that looks like.
So I'm going to go back out to Springboard.
And as you may have noticed in the earlier
demos the application on the device
that manages the configuration
profiles is the Settings application.
So I'm going to go ahead and launch Settings.
Go into General.
Scroll all the way to the bottom.
And I see I have two profiles installed.
I'm going to tap that, I'd like to see what they are.
There's my web clips one that I
just installed, and my Wi-Fi.
And I'm ready to take the Wi-Fi off.
So I'm going to tap that.
Hit Remove.
And I have to know the removal password
for this profile, and I happen to know it.
Tap Remove.
It's going to pull the profile off.
And my access to that Wi-Fi network has been removed.
I can do the same thing with the
profile that installed the web clips.
And when you uninstall configuration profiles,
it takes anything it added to the device with it.
So we saw that there were three web clips installed.
When I removed the web clip profile it's
going to go ahead and delete those as well.
So let's do that.
Remove. Yes, removing this profile is
going to change some settings on my phone.
I'm good with that, I'm done with the web clips.
Take them off.
And no web clips.
Cool. So that's -- as we mentioned, there are
four ways to get profiles to the device earlier.
OTA, from the web, delivered via e-mail.
And the fourth one is via tether to
the iPhone Configuration Utility.
So in just a second here I'm going
to -- and we'll go back to iPCU.
I've got a VPN profile that I'd
like to install on this device.
I'm going to give some of my users
access to the corporate network remotely.
I just drag and drop that file on to iPCU.
And -- I'm going to change the
security on this VPN profile to Never.
I never want my users to be able to remove it.
So the only way they can get those configuration
settings off of their device is to either wipe it
and reinstall the OS, or bring it
back to their System Administrator
and say please remove this configuration
profile from this device.
So it's essentially locked onto the device.
And one important thing to remember is that when
you add a profile like this to the device, one,
you should do it sparingly, because it
can be a real hassle for users, and two,
it can only be removed from the iPCU that installed it.
So I'm happy with this configuration.
Make sure it's all good.
There's my VPN settings.
I'm going to add a bunch of restrictions.
No Music Store, no apps, I'm really
locking this guy's device down.
I'm going to go ahead and select my connected device.
And again, you get the Summary screen.
Configuration Profiles.
I'm going to go ahead and install my VPN profile.
I'm going to hit -- [Inaudible] since I can't show
you both the laptop and the device at the same time,
and I want you to see the device
experience, I'm going to show you that.
All I'm going to do here is tap Install.
Tap Install.
It's going to push the profile over to the device.
You see that because this profile came from
iPCU, and when the device was connected
to iPCU they swapped security credentials.
This profile is now verified.
So the phone trusts it.
Go ahead and tap Install.
And now we'll get a different warning than I got before.
The one before said once this profile is installed
it can't be removed unless you enter a password.
Slightly different verbiage here.
Once this profile is installed it can't be removed at all.
I'm good with that.
I really need the VPN access.
So I'm going to go ahead and install it.
And I need to enter the VPN password
because I didn't include it in my profile.
I need to enter a passcode now.
My profile installed.
And I can go ahead and -- oops, there we go.
Profile installation is done.
Click Done.
If I go into my Settings I see that it added a web clip.
Oops, General -- Network -- I'm not connected to my VPN.
Now let's go back and look at what that nonremovable
profile looks like in the profile settings.
So I'm going to launch Settings again.
General, Profile, and you notice
there's no Remove button here at all.
This is locked to the device.
Like I said, you either have to wipe
it, or you have to remove it with iPCU.
Still connected to iPCU.
So I'm going to go ahead and I'm going
to remove this profile from the device.
So the UI updated when this device was attached.
The profile is installed.
And what was an Install button has now changed to Remove.
I'm gonna go ahead and tap that.
Yup, I know that this can't be undone.
That's cool.
I want to remove it.
See that it's now available to install.
Now that it's been removed.
And if we go back to the device, again, go
into Settings, General, and Profiles is gone.
There are no profiles installed on this device.
So I've shown you today how profiles are installed
via e-mail, how the different security settings show
up in the Profile Summary screen, and the different security
restrictions that exist around configuration profiles.
Thank you for your time, I hope you have a great conference.
[ Applause ]
>> Well, thank you Chris.
Now for the last few slides.
That was the user experience.
Let's have a few words about best practices.
You have seen four ways of deploying profiles.
Use OTA for the best flexibility and the best scalability.
It is some up front cost to your IT department,
but it is by far the best experience for the user.
Because they can be anywhere, they can
be travelling, they can lose the device
and get a replacement device, and it will still work.
But it is some cost for you to set up the
server, and we will help you with that.
USB with iPCU when you have a small
shop, when you have just a few employees.
Or just for debugging.
That's also really useful.
Use unencrypted profiles when you just want
to share something that there is no secret.
Just web clips for universities,
that's how the whole idea was born.
And always sign profiles so that the user has some
sort of a certainty where the profile came from.
The profile will refuse to install -- the
iPhone will refuse to install the profile
that has been tampered with, or
where the signature doesn't match.
So the summary, the profiles are here to
simplify life and configuration of phones.
Because most users don't want to deal with
Exchange and VPN and Wi-Fi and all that.
iPCU is your hub how to create
and also how to deploy profiles
Encryption is available here now as a big thing.
Everything that you have seen here is totally secure,
sniffing the channel is not going to do the hacker any good.
Even if they were to download the profile
from the phone, it's still stored encrypted.
You can distribute profiles over
the web, e-mail, or OTA and USB.
And always consider security when creating
profiles, and choosing the deployment method.
>> For more information, if you
have any questions, bug Mark.
Not us.